---
layout: post
title:  "colcon—collective construction"
author: lyf
key:  20190907
categories: [ ROS ]
image: https://gitpage-images.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/img/20190909090939.jpg
tags: [featured]
---

colcon is a command line tool to improve the workflow of building, testing and using multiple software packages. It automates the process, handles the ordering and sets up the environment to use the packages.

The code is open source, and available on [GitHub](https://github.com/colcon).


### Quick start

The following is an example workflow and sequence of commands using default settings:


```
mkdir -p /tmp/workspace/src     # Make a workspace directory with a src subdirectory
cd /tmp/workspace               # Change directory to the workspace root
<...>                           # Populate the `src` directory with packages
colcon list -g                  # List all packages in the workspace and their dependencies
colcon build                    # Build all packages in the workspace
colcon test                     # Test all packages in the workspace
colcon test-result --all        # Enumerate all test results
. install/local_setup.bash      # Setup the environment to use the built packages
 <...>                           # Use the built packages
```

The most commonly used arguments for the `build` and `test` verbs are to only process a specific package or a specific package including all the recursive dependencies it needs.

```
colcon build --packages-select <name-of-pkg>
colcon build --packages-up-to <name-of-pkg>
```


### Build ROS 2 packages

The process of building [ROS 2](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/) packages is described in the [ROS 2 building from source instructions](https://github.com/ros2/ros2#building-from-source). Using `colcon` instead of the recommended tool` ament_tools` only changes a couple of the steps.

Instead of invoking ament build you can invoke `colcon`.

```
colcon build
```

In order to use the built packages you need to source the `install/local_setup.<ext>` script mentioned in the instructions.

For detailed information how command line arguments of `ament_tools` are mapped to `colcon` please see the [ament_tools migration guide](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/migration/ament_tools.html).

### Build ROS 1 packages

The process of building [ROS 1](https://www.ros.org/) packages is described in the [distro specific](http://wiki.ros.org/melodic/Installation/Source) building from source instructions. Using `colcon` instead of the recommended tool `catkin_make` only changes a couple of the steps.

```
 colcon build
```

**colcon does by design not support the concept of a “devel space” as it exists in ROS 1. Instead it requires each package to be installed so each package must declare an install step in order to work with colcon.**

In order to use the built packages you need to source the `install/local_setup.<ext>` rather than the `setup.<ext>` script mentioned in the instructions.

### Test ROS 1 packages

As of `colcon-ros` version 0.3.6 the `build` verb builds the test targets for ROS 1 packages implicitly (when available).


In earlier versions you must build the custom `tests` target explicitly:


```
colcon build --cmake-target tests
```
